---
title: 3D Secure 2.0
category:
  uri: Payment methods
slug: 3ds2
position: 0
privacy:
  view: public
parent:
  uri: cards
---

> ⚠️ Note:
>
> Due to scheme regulations, transactions created with payment method VISA must include correct customer details in the `email` / `phone` parameter.\
> See also [Create Order](/reference/createorder/) > customer object.

# Authentication

3D Secure 2.0 (3DS2) is an authentication protocol that <Glossary>card schemes</Glossary> use to verify cardholder identity for online credit and debit card payments. Under the [PSD2](/docs/psd2/), MultiSafepay is required to apply it to **all** Europe-based card payments, and we enable it by default for non-EU payments as well.

3DS2 provides an extra layer of security and helps reduce fraud-related [chargebacks](/docs/chargebacks/). If a transaction is successfully authenticated using 3DS2, the issuer is responsible for fraud-related chargeback costs instead of you.

## How it works

1. The cardholder enters their payment details and is redirected to the card scheme to authenticate using their branded version of 3DS2:
   * American Express Safekey
   * Mastercard SecureCode
   * Verified by Visa
2. MultiSafepay shares contextual information from the customer's device (fingerprint) with the issuer for a risk assessment, e.g.:
   * Transaction value
   * New or existing customer
   * Customer's location or transaction history
3. The issuer decides whether to request additional authentication:
   * **Frictionless flow:** The transaction appears legitimate and is authorized without further user-side authentication. You are not liable for fraud-related chargebacks.
   * **Challenge flow:** The transaction appears risky, and the cardholder is asked to provide additional authentication, e.g., password, SMS code, and fingerprint.

# Direct card payments

When you collect cardholder data, you also need to collect other contextual information from the customer's device (fingerprint). This is only relevant for `direct` card orders and **not** for [payment components](/docs/payment-components) or [payment pages](/docs/payment-pages), where MultiSafepay collects the fingerprint on your behalf.

See also [Cardholder data](/docs/cardholder-data).

**⚠️ Note:** Some details are required to comply with scheme regulations. For example, transactions created with payment method VISA must include the `email` parameter.

# Exemptions

To help you optimize <Glossary>conversion</Glossary> and manage risk, MultiSafepay supports exemptions from 3DS2 and [strong customer authentication](/docs/psd2/) (SCA). {/* Under the PSD2, some exemptions are only supported outside of Europe */}

> ⚠️ Warning
>
> Exemptions remove an important layer of security and increase the risk of fraud.\
> You are then liable for any fraud-related chargebacks.

## Low value payments

We will soon support exemptions for low value payments (LVP) under 30 EUR.

## Secure corporate payments

SCA authentication is **not** required for corporate card payments made with commercial cards.

## Transaction risk analysis

MultiSafepay can conduct a transaction risk analysis (TRA) for specific transactions for amounts up to EUR 500. The <Glossary>issuer</Glossary> may soft decline the exemption, in which case the customer is automatically redirected to authenticate.

* **Scope:** All EU and non-EU cards
* **Pricing:** Free
* **Activation:** Email [sales@multisafepay.com](mailto:sales@multisafepay.com)

# Out of scope

## Mail Order/Telephone Order (MOTO)

For [MOTO](/docs/moto/) payments, the customer gives you their card details by phone or email.\
3DS2 authentication is **not** required.

## Recurring payments

For [recurring payments](/docs/recurring-payments), 3DS2 or SCA authentication is required **only** for the initial payment transaction.

# Solutions

## Disabling 3DS2

MultiSafepay can disable 3DS2 for all your card payments.

* **Scope:** Non-EU cards only
* **Pricing:** Free
* **Activation:** Email [risk@multisafepay.com](mailto:risk@multisafepay.com)

## Dynamic 3D

Dynamic 3D is a MultiSafepay solution that lets you set rules to disable 3DS2 per transaction, e.g. based on amount, or card/customer/IP country.

* **Scope:** Non-EU cards only
* **Pricing:** MultiSafepay applies a different fee to non-3DS2 transactions. We may also charge a fee to implement Dynamic 3D. To confirm pricing, email [sales@multisafepay.com](mailto:sales@multisafepay.com)
* **Activation:** Provide the following required information by email to [sales@multisafepay.com](mailto:sales@multisafepay.com)
  * State why you want to use Dynamic 3D.
  * Provide evidence of significant volumes of non-EU card payments.
  * Specify which sites under your account this applies to.
  * Demonstrate excellent processing performance, especially for chargebacks.
  * Confirm that you understand the increased risk of chargebacks and accept liability for non-payment after shipment, and the pricing structure.

## Flexible 3D

Flexible 3D is a MultiSafepay solution that lets you enable and disable 3DS2 per transaction via our API.

* **Scope:** Non-EU cards only
* **Prerequisites:** You must be certified to [handle cardholder data](/docs/cardholder-data/).
* **Activation:** Email [risk@multisafepay.com](mailto:risk@multisafepay.com)
* **Integration:** See API reference – [Create order](/reference/createorder/) > Card order. Set the `type` parameter to `direct`. Include the customer fingerprint data.

***

<blockquote className="callout callout_info">
    <h3 className="callout-heading false">
        <span className="callout-icon">💬</span>
        <p>Support</p>
    </h3>
    <p>Email <a href="mailto:support@multisafepay.com">support@multisafepay.com</a></p>
</blockquote>

[Top of page](#)
